Heart Rate Service client and central_and_peripheral_hr sample (#6045)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/central_and_pripheral_hr/README.rst

  * Peripheral role - advertises and exposes a Heart Rate Service.

When connected as central the samples starts service discovery procedure to search for Heart Rate Service.
If this succeeds then the sample reads the Body Sensor Location characteristic and subscribes to the Heart Rate Measurement characteristic to receive notifications.
When connected also as peripheral to device acting as a Heart Rate Service client, the sample starts working as relay.
It collects data from a remote Heart Rate Service sending notification and sends this data by it own Heart Rate Service to another remote device providing Heart Rate Serice client by notification.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_and_cpuapp_ns, nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf52dk_nrf52832, nrf52833dk_nrf52833, nrf52833dk_nrf52820, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

Bluetooth® LE Central Role only:

  The sample also requires a smartphone or tablet running a compatible application.

  You can also test the application with the :ref:`zephyr:peripheral_hr`.

>   See the documentation for that sample for detailed instructions.

Author: This describe how to use this sample in Central role only. I would keep it here

#. Program the other kit with :ref:`zephyr:peripheral_hr` samples and reset it.
#. Wait until the HRS is detected by the central.
   Observe that **LED 2** is on.
#. In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following:
        Heart Rate Sensor body location: Chest
        Heart Rate Measurement notification received:

            Heart Rate Measurement Value Format: 8 - bit
            Sensor Contact detected: 1
            Sensor Contact supported: 1
            Energy Expended present: 0
            RR-Intervals present: 0

            Heart Rate Measurement Value: 134 bpm

   Notifications will be displayed periodically with a frequency determined by the HR server.

#. Program another kit with :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr` and reset it.
#. Wait until central is connected to your development kit.
   Observe that **LED 3** is on.
#. In terminal windows connected to :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr`, check for information similar to following:

        [NOTIFICATION] data 0x20006779 length 2

#. Sample is working as relay now.

Testing with nRF Connect for Desktop
------------------------------------
1. |connect terminal|
#. Reset the kit.

> #. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.

Author: Yes you need to lunch Bluetooth Low Energy app

> #. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.

Author: Should we mention it here ?

> #. Go to the :guilabel:`Server setup` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open the :guilabel:`SERVER SETUP` tab.
```

   Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Load setup`.
   Load the :file:`hr_service.ncs` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/central_and_peripheral_hr` in the |NCS| folder structure.
#. Click :guilabel:`Apply to device`.
#. Go to the :guilabel:`Connection Map` tab.
   Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Advertising setup`.

>    The current version of nRF Connect can store the advertising setup.

Reviewer: Could this also be a step? Or is this just a remark that you can store the advertising setup in the Bluetooth Low Energy(?) app?

If this can be a step -> Store the advertising setup: and then the two sub-steps.

Author: This is just a remark. I upgrade substeps to steps

   #. Click :guilabel:`Load setup`.
      Load the :file:`hrs_adv_setup.ncs` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/central_and_peripheral_hr` in the |NCS| folder structure.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Apply` and :guilabel:`Close`.

> #. In the Adapter settings, choose :guilabel:`Start advertising`.

Reviewer: Is the "Adapter settings" something that is visible in the UI?

Author: You need to click gear to see Adapter settings

Author: Ok I added additional information in brackets about gear ikon

> #. Wait until the kit that runs the Central and Peripheral HRS connects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait until the development kit running the Central and Peripheral HRS connects.
```

    Observe that **LED 2** is on.
#. Explore the :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic.

>    Write value `06 80` and click :guilabel:`Play` button to send notification.
>    In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Write value ``06 80`` and click the :guilabel:`Play` button to send a notification.
   In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following:
```
Would this be a step as well, or is it explaining how to explore the characteristic?

        Heart Rate Sensor body location: Chest
        Heart Rate Measurement notification received:

            Heart Rate Measurement Value Format: 8 - bit
            Sensor Contact detected: 1
            Sensor Contact supported: 1
            Energy Expended present: 0
            RR-Intervals present: 0

            Heart Rate Measurement Value: 128 bpm

> #. The `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ also detects the Central and Peripheral HRS sample Heart Rate Service.

Reviewer: The Bluetooth Low Energy app? I believe this is not a step anymore, but the two below  (Enable and Write) could be steps.

Author: Yes, but we use everywhere just `nRF Connect for Desktop`. Should I change it ?

Reviewer: I would say yes. Maybe in the first occurrence, we could explain that this means the Bluetooth Low Energy app found in the nRF Connect for Desktop.

Author: Ok at begin of the Testing section I changed it to the nRF Connect for Desktop Bluetooth Low Energy application

  See the documentation for that sample for detailed instructions.

Relay mode:

  The sample requires a smartphone or a tablet running a compatible application..

  You can test the application with the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr` and :ref:`zephyr:peripheral_hr` samples.
  You need additional two development kits for testing with these two samples.

  You can also mix devices for this sample.
  For an echo test, you only need one additional device.
  For example, you can use a smartphone providing the HRS functionality and a development kit running the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr` sample.

User interface
**************

LED 1:
   Blinks when the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising) with a period of two seconds, duty cycle 50%.

LED 2:
   On when the development kit is connected as central.

LED 3:
  On when the development kit is connected as peripheral.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/central_and_peripheral_hr`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. _central_and_peripheral_hrs_testing:

Testing
=======

> After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it either by connecting to other development kits that are running the :ref:`peripheral_hids_keyboard` sample, or by using the `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ Bluetooth Low Energy Application that emulates a HRS server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it either by connecting to other development kits that are running the :ref:`peripheral_hids_keyboard` sample, or by using the `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ **Bluetooth Low Energy** application that emulates a HRS server.
```

Author: Done

Testing with other development kits
-----------------------------------

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Program the other development kit with the :ref:`zephyr:peripheral_hr` sample and reset it.
#. Wait until the HRS is detected by the central.
   Observe that **LED 2** is on.

> #. In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following:

Author: Done

        Heart Rate Sensor body location: Chest
        Heart Rate Measurement notification received:

            Heart Rate Measurement Value Format: 8 - bit
            Sensor Contact detected: 1
            Sensor Contact supported: 1
            Energy Expended present: 0
            RR-Intervals present: 0

            Heart Rate Measurement Value: 134 bpm

   Notifications will be displayed periodically with a frequency determined by the HR server.

#. Program another development kit with the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr` sample and reset it.
#. Wait until central is connected to your development kit.
   Observe that **LED 3** is on.

> #. In terminal windows connected to device with the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_central_hr` sample, check for information similar to following:

Author: Done

        [NOTIFICATION] data 0x20006779 length 2

The sample works as relay now.

Testing with nRF Connect for Desktop
------------------------------------
1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the development kit.
#. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.
#. Open the :guilabel:`SERVER SETUP` tab.
#. Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Load setup`.
#. Load the :file:`hr_service.ncs` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/central_and_peripheral_hr` in the |NCS| folder structure.
#. Click :guilabel:`Apply to device`.
#. Open the :guilabel:`CONNECTION MAP` tab.
#. Click the dongle configuration(gear ikon) and select :guilabel:`Advertising setup`.

   The current version of nRF Connect can store the advertising setup.

#. Click :guilabel:`Load setup`.
   Load the :file:`hrs_adv_setup.ncs` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/central_and_peripheral_hr` in the |NCS| folder structure.
#. Click :guilabel:`Apply` and :guilabel:`Close`.

> #. In the Adapter settings(click gear ikon to open it), choose :guilabel:`Start advertising`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click to the gear icon to open the Adapter settings and select :guilabel:`Start advertising`.
```

Author: Done

#. Wait until the development kit running the Central and Peripheral HRS connects.
   Observe that **LED 2** is on.
#. Explore the :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic.
#. Write value ``06 80`` and click the :guilabel:`Play` button to send a notification.

>    In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following::
```

Author: Done

        Heart Rate Sensor body location: Chest
        Heart Rate Measurement notification received:

            Heart Rate Measurement Value Format: 8 - bit
            Sensor Contact detected: 1
            Sensor Contact supported: 1
            Energy Expended present: 0
            RR-Intervals present: 0

            Heart Rate Measurement Value: 128 bpm

#. The `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ also detects the Central and Peripheral HRS sample Heart Rate Service.

> #. Enable the notification for :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enable the notification for the :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic.
```

Author: Done

> #. Write again value ``06 80`` and click the :guilabel:`Play` button to send notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Write again value ``06 80`` and click the :guilabel:`Play` button to send a notification.
```

Author: Done

>    The same value appears for sample :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic, sample works as relay for Heart Rate Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The same value appears for the sample :guilabel:`Heart Rate Measurement` characteristic.
   The sample works as relay for the Heart Rate Service.
```

Author: Done
